In your own terms, define the following terms:

What is HTTP?
HTTP is Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. It is used for web documnets transmition in the internet and the data communication between clents and server.

What is a URL?
URL is Iniform Resource Locator. It is an address for the internet resouce.

What is DNS?
DNS is Domain Name System. It is a system that takes human-readable URLs and converts them into IP address.

What is a query string?
Query string is the string that people put at the end of a URL. It allows you to plass key-value pairs into the URL.

What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different?
List two HTTP Verbs and their use cases.

GET - get some data from the server (most pages, search forms)
POST - send some data to the server (pages that change data on server)


What is an HTTP request?
An HTTP request is a request from a client to a server which follows the HTTP protocol (eg a request for HTML from news.google.com)

What is an HTTP response?
An HTTP response is a response from a server to a client which follows the HTTP protocol (eg sending back HTML/CSS/JS/etc)

What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.
Headers provide additional information about the request or the response. Here are some examples:
Request headers: Host, User-Agent, Accept, Cookie, Cache-Control
Response headers: Content-Type, Last-Modified, Set-Cookie, Cache-Control

What are the processes that happen when you type “http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?
Your browser “resolves” the name into an IP address using DNS
Your browser makes a request to that IP address, including headers (info about browser, any previous cookies, and other things)
The server sends a response (typically, HTML, with a status code (200 if it was sucessful)
The browser makes a DOM from that HTML, and finds any other resources needed (images, CSS, JavaScript, etc)
The browser makes separate HTTP requests for those resources and receives response from the server for each